docs/itinero/development/index.md, before:

# Roadmap

This is an overview of features that are either in development or on the roadmap:

## Version 1.1

*This version has been released: https://github.com/itinero/routing/blob/master/docs/releasenotes/itinero-1.1.0.md*

This contains some ideas on some non-breaking extensions on top of v1.0.

- Add a weight matrix calculation algorithm that calculates edge->edge weights excluding the source-target edge weights. *DONE*
  - Check to see if the current edge-based matrix algorithm can be replaced by this more general case. *DONE*
- And several other issues and ideas: [Milestone for 1.1](https://github.com/itinero/routing/milestone/3) *DONE*

## Version 1.2

*This version has been released: https://github.com/itinero/routing/blob/master/docs/releasenotes/itinero-1.2.0.md*

- Fixed maxspeed normalization issue.
- Implemented support for nested relations by allowing multiple passes over relations if requested.
- Implemented support for nested cycle route relations in the default bicycle profile.
- Fixed directed weight matrix issue related to resolved points on oneway segments.

## Version 1.3

*This version has been released: https://github.com/itinero/routing/blob/master/docs/releasenotes/itinero-1.3.0.md*

- Meta-data on vertices: More details [here](https://github.com/itinero/routing/wiki/Development-Plan:--Meta-data-on-vertices).
- A way to extract parts of the network and save them as a new routerDb.

## Version 1.4

*The version is available as a prerelease with the following on the agenda/done:*

- [ ] Add extension method to directly load data from overpass by polygon.
- [x] Improve the island detection by using boolean arrays.
- [ ] Elevation profiles: Output height profiles of calculated routes.

## Version 2.0 and beyond

- Logging: use something like LibLog in v2.0:
  - http://forums.dotnetfoundation.org/t/logging-best-practices/2758
  - https://github.com/damianh/LibLog
- Figure out how to improve island detection, also including restrictions.
  - Also included edge-based routing and U-turn prevention: http://geojson.io/#id=gist:anonymous/89cf914f12693460bcb117599dc7593f&map=19/50.15657/6.05205
  - Goal is to get, once resolved 100% success rate from routing.
  - The only way to do this, to get a final solution, is to invalidate edges, in a given direction.
- Fix issue with float's not being good enough: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/120
- Move to netstandard2.0 *only*.
- Use the meta-data on vertices to paste networks back together by keeping node id's.
- Move to .NET core for the functional test project: development should be possible on any platform.
- [PLANNED](https://github.com/itinero/routing/tree/features/constraints): Constrained routing: Routing with constraints like weight limits or vehicle size (width and height).
- [PLANNED] Destination-only access: Handle access constraints where there is destination only access, also when using contracted graphs.
- Better CH: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/92
- Reevaluate Lua profiles: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/102
- Figure out a way to better detect islands and route under all conditions: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/104
- Support for dynamic weights per edge, for example to handle floating car data: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/103
- Look at the filesize of the routerDb's: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/105
- Elevation-aware routing: Routing that takes into account elevation. Think avoiding steep hills for bicycles.
- No-go areas or maximum speeds based on areas: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/19
- Alternative routes.
- Map matching.
- Reevaluate lua for instruction generation of fix performance issues.
- Remove nullable booleans to describe directional information.
- Remove this fix: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/108
- cleanup weight handlers, let them die!
- cleanup old way of handling restrictions.
- cleanup using bool? for directions and replace by Dir structure.
- cleanup old way of doing edge-based routing.
- Consider implementing support for multi-level route relations: https://github.com/itinero/routing/wiki/Development-plan:-Handle-multi-level-route-relations.#process-relations-in-multiple-passes
- Move OSM specific parsing to the OSM namespace: IAttributeCollectionExtension
- Refactor the island detector to only accept a single profile.

## General ideas

A collection of general ideas that may or may not end up on the final roadmap.

https://github.com/AArnott/PdbGit/blob/master/README.md

- Add a more efficient data structure to represent restrictions
- [x] Add extension method to turn a routerpoint into GeoJSON

Just return geojson with all details included:

- Edge with start and end vertex.
- The location on the network.
- The original location.

Commit message:

Added isochrones feature dev strategy.

docs/itinero/development/index.md, after:

# Roadmap

This is an overview of features that are either in development or on the roadmap:

## Version 1.1

*This version has been released: https://github.com/itinero/routing/blob/master/docs/releasenotes/itinero-1.1.0.md*

This contains some ideas on some non-breaking extensions on top of v1.0.

- Add a weight matrix calculation algorithm that calculates edge->edge weights excluding the source-target edge weights. *DONE*
  - Check to see if the current edge-based matrix algorithm can be replaced by this more general case. *DONE*
- And several other issues and ideas: [Milestone for 1.1](https://github.com/itinero/routing/milestone/3) *DONE*

## Version 1.2

*This version has been released: https://github.com/itinero/routing/blob/master/docs/releasenotes/itinero-1.2.0.md*

- Fixed maxspeed normalization issue.
- Implemented support for nested relations by allowing multiple passes over relations if requested.
- Implemented support for nested cycle route relations in the default bicycle profile.
- Fixed directed weight matrix issue related to resolved points on oneway segments.

## Version 1.3

*This version has been released: https://github.com/itinero/routing/blob/master/docs/releasenotes/itinero-1.3.0.md*

- Meta-data on vertices: More details [here](https://github.com/itinero/routing/wiki/Development-Plan:--Meta-data-on-vertices).
- A way to extract parts of the network and save them as a new routerDb.

## Version 1.4

*The version is available as a prerelease with the following on the agenda/done:*

- [ ] Add extension method to directly load data from overpass by polygon.
- [x] Improve the island detection by using boolean arrays.
- [ ] Elevation profiles: Output height profiles of calculated routes.

## Version 1.5

*An idea of the next priorities, this is subject to changes!*

- [ ] Implement a proper @dev-feature-isochrones algorithm.

## Version 2.0 and beyond

- Logging: use something like LibLog in v2.0:
  - http://forums.dotnetfoundation.org/t/logging-best-practices/2758
  - https://github.com/damianh/LibLog
- Figure out how to improve island detection, also including restrictions.
  - Also included edge-based routing and U-turn prevention: http://geojson.io/#id=gist:anonymous/89cf914f12693460bcb117599dc7593f&map=19/50.15657/6.05205
  - Goal is to get, once resolved 100% success rate from routing.
  - The only way to do this, to get a final solution, is to invalidate edges, in a given direction.
- Fix issue with float's not being good enough: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/120
- Move to netstandard2.0 *only*.
- Use the meta-data on vertices to paste networks back together by keeping node id's.
- Move to .NET core for the functional test project: development should be possible on any platform.
- [PLANNED](https://github.com/itinero/routing/tree/features/constraints): Constrained routing: Routing with constraints like weight limits or vehicle size (width and height).
- [PLANNED] Destination-only access: Handle access constraints where there is destination only access, also when using contracted graphs.
- Better CH: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/92
- Reevaluate Lua profiles: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/102
- Figure out a way to better detect islands and route under all conditions: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/104
- Support for dynamic weights per edge, for example to handle floating car data: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/103
- Look at the filesize of the routerDb's: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/105
- Elevation-aware routing: Routing that takes into account elevation. Think avoiding steep hills for bicycles.
- No-go areas or maximum speeds based on areas: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/19
- Alternative routes.
- Map matching.
- Reevaluate lua for instruction generation of fix performance issues.
- Remove nullable booleans to describe directional information.
- Remove this fix: https://github.com/itinero/routing/issues/108
- cleanup weight handlers, let them die!
- cleanup old way of handling restrictions.
- cleanup using bool? for directions and replace by Dir structure.
- cleanup old way of doing edge-based routing.
- Consider implementing support for multi-level route relations: https://github.com/itinero/routing/wiki/Development-plan:-Handle-multi-level-route-relations.#process-relations-in-multiple-passes
- Move OSM specific parsing to the OSM namespace: IAttributeCollectionExtension
- Refactor the island detector to only accept a single profile.

## General ideas

A collection of general ideas that may or may not end up on the final roadmap.

https://github.com/AArnott/PdbGit/blob/master/README.md

- Add a more efficient data structure to represent restrictions
- [x] Add extension method to turn a routerpoint into GeoJSON

Just return geojson with all details included:

- Edge with start and end vertex.
- The location on the network.
- The original location.
